>> John Larson: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SUNDAY JULY 6...
ISRAELI AUTHORITIES
MAKE SIX ARRESTS
FOR WHAT THEY NOW BELIEVE WAS
THE REVENGE MURDER
OF A PALESTINIAN TEENAGER BURNED
ALIVE.
HARI SREENIVASAN REPORTS FROM
THE ASPEN IDEAS FESTIVAL.
AND FROM CALIFORNIA,
A REPORT ABOUT A DEBILITATING
AND DEADLY DISEASE--
VALLEY FEVER.
YOU CAN'T FILTER OUT A SPORE.
YOU KNOW, THOSE ARE GOING TO GO
AHEAD AND GET UP INTO THE AIR
AND FIND ITS WAY TO NOSE OR
NOSTRILS.
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>> FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
IN LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>> Larson: GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
I'M JOHN LARSON.
HARI SREENIVASAN WILL JOIN US
LATER FROM ASPEN, COLORADO.
WE BEGIN TONIGHT IN ISRAEL,
WHERE AUTHORITIES TODAY ARRESTED
SIX MEN THEY BELIEVE
ARE RESPONSIBLE
FOR THE REVENGE MURDER
OF A PALESTINIAN TEENAGER.
THE 16-YEAR-OLD WAS BEATEN
AND BURNED ALIVE--
AN INCIDENT APPARENTLY SPARKED
BY THE KIDNAPPING
AND MURDER OF THREE
ISRAELI TEENAGERS.
THE ARRESTS WERE ONE OF SEVERAL
IMPORTANT DEVELOPMENTS
IN ISRAEL TODAY.
FOR MORE WE ARE JOINED ONCE
AGAIN TONIGHT VIA SKYPE
IN JERUSALEM BY JOSEF FEDERMAN
OF THE ASSOCIATED PRESS.
JOE, THANKS AGAIN FOR JOINING
US.
WHAT DO WE KNOW ABOUT
THE ARRESTS TODAY?
>> WELL, ISRAELI AUTHORITIES
HAVE JUST ANNOUNCED
THEY ARRESTED SEVERAL SUSPECTS.
THEY HAVEN'T GIVEN THE OFFICIAL
NUMBER,
BUT OFFICIALS ARE SAYING THEY
HAVE SIX PEOPLE IN CUSTODY.
THE ARRESTS TOOK PLACE THIS
MORNING
AND EVERYBODY IS STILL BEING
INTERROGATED RIGHT NOW.
WE DON'T KNOW THEIR
IDENTIFICATIONS YET--
WE DON'T HAVE THEIR NAMES--
BUT WE KNOW THAT
THEY ARE JEWISH,
WE KNOW THAT THEY ARE YOUNG MEN,
IN FACT SOME OF THEM
ARE EVEN BELOW THE AGE OF 18,
THEY HAVE BEEN IDENTIFIED
AS MINORS
AND THEY COME FROM
THE JERUSALEM AREA.
>> Larson: WE DON'T KNOW
ANYTHING ABOUT
THEIR AFFILIATIONS OR WHAT MIGHT
BE BEHIND THIS,
BUT 24 HOURS AGO THEY WEREN'T
EVEN SURE WHETHER OR NOT
IT WAS NATIONALISTIC
IN ITS NATURE.
>> EXACTLY.
THAT IS WHY THIS IS SUCH A
SIGNIFICANT BREAKTHROUGH,
BECAUSE REALLY IT POINTS US IN
THE DIRECTION THAT PALESTINIANS
CERTAINLY HAVE SUSPECTED AND
A LOT OF ISRAELIS HAD FEARED
THAT IT WAS NATIONALISTIC.
INITIALLY POLICE HAD BEEN
LOOKING INTO
POSSIBLE CRIMINAL MOTIVES OR
PERSONAL MOTIVES
BUT NOW THEY HAVE IDENTIFIED THE
DIRECTION FROM WHICH IT CAME.
>> Larson:
JOE, I READ A DESCRIPTION
OF THE PALESTINIAN MOTHER OF THE
PALESTINIAN BOY
WHO WAS KILLED, OF HER REACTION
SAYING THAT REGARDLESS OF WHO
WAS ARRESTED,
SHE DIDN'T TRUST WHAT WAS GOING
TO HAPPEN AND SHE SAID,
YOU KNOW, THEY SHOULD TREAT
WHOEVER IS ARRESTED,
THEIR FAMILIES, LIKE THEY TREAT
OUR FAMILIES,
BURN THEIR HOUSES.
IT WAS AN ANGRY RESPONSE.
TO WHAT EXTENT DO YOU THINK
THIS ARREST WILL MATTER
TO THE PALESTINIAN COMMUNITY?
>> I THINK WHAT THE MOTHER
EXPRESSED IS A COMMON SENTIMENT.
THERE IS A LOT OF DISTRUST
TOWARD THE ISRAELI AUTHORITIES.
RELATIONS ARE BAD AND THEY HAVE
BEEN BAD FOR A LONG TIME.
THAT SAID, THE SITUATION
ON THE GROUND
SEEMS TO BE CALMING TODAY.
YOU SEE A LOT OF EFFORTS
BY THE ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER
WHO WENT ON NATIONAL TV JUST IN
THE PAST FEW MINUTES
TO URGE CALM.
ISRAEL'S PRESIDENT SHIMON PERES,
A NOBEL PEACE PRIZE WINNER,
ALSO URGING CALM.
AND THERE ARE ATTEMPTS BY
ISRAELI OFFICIALS
TO WORK WITH ARAB LEADERS IN
NORTHERN ISRAEL,
WHERE THERE HAVE BEEN
VIOLENT PROTESTS
IN THE PAST FEW DAYS,
ALSO WORKING TOGETHER TO GET
THINGS BACK TO NORMAL.
IN ADDITION IN EAST JERUSALEM,
IN THE NEIGHBORHOODS
THAT SAW HEAVIEST RIOTING,
THINGS ARE MOVING BACK
TO NORMAL TODAY.
WE SEE MARKETPLACES REOPENING,
WE SEE THE STREETS ARE REOPENING
TO TRAFFIC
AND PEOPLE GOING BACK TO THEIR
ROUTINES.
SO THE SIGNS ARE THAT THINGS ARE
BEGINNING TO CALM DOWN.
>> Larson: WHAT ABOUT
THE INVESTIGATION
INTO THE MURDER OF THE THREE
ISRAELI TEENS?
WHERE DOES THAT STAND?
>> THAT CONTINUES, AND I KNOW IT
IS A HIGH PRIORITY
FOR THE ISRAELIS.
TODAY WE WERE TOLD THAT THERE
HAS BEEN ANOTHER ARREST.
IT'S POSSIBLY A SIGNIFICANT
ARREST
BECAUSE IT TOOK PLACE IN THE
SAME TOWN IN HEBRON,
THE CITY OF THE WEST BANK WHERE
THE SUSPECTED KILLERS
WERE STILL ON THE LOOSE,
WHERE THEY COME FROM,
SO THERE IS SOME SPECULATION
THAT TODAY'S ARREST
WAS SIGNIFICANT.
THAT SAID, ISRAEL HAS ARRESTED
PROBABLY ABOUT 400 PEOPLE
SO FAR IN ITS ONGOING
INVESTIGATION.
SO NO IMMEDIATE SIGNS
OF A BREAKTHROUGH.
>> I UNDERSTAND THERE MAY BE
DEVELOPMENTS
IN ANOTHER INCIDENT, A BEATING
BY ISRAELI POLICE
OF AN AMERICAN TEENAGER, THE
COUSIN OF THE PALESTINIAN TEEN
WHO WAS KILLED.
ANY NEWS ON THAT?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
HE ALSO IN THE SAME NEIGHBORHOOD
FROM HIS COUSIN WHO WAS KILLED.
HE WAS BEATEN VERY BAD BY
ISRAELI SECURITY TROOPS
DURING ONE OF THE DEMONSTRATIONS
THE OTHER DAY.
HE WAS RELEASED FROM ISRAELI
CUSTODY TODAY.
HE WAS IN PRETTY BAD SHAPE--
TWO BLACK EYES,
HIS MOUTH, HIS FACE IS ALL
SWOLLEN
BUT HE HAS BEEN RELEASED
TO HOUSE ARREST.
HE'S BEEN ORDERED TO STAY WITH
HIS FAMILY
WHILE THIS INVESTIGATION
CONTINUES.
WE SPOKE TO HIM VERY BRIEFLY AND
HE JUST SAID
HE IS HAPPY TO BE HOME.
>> Larson: JOSEF FEDERMAN
OF THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
FROM JERUSALEM,
ONCE AGAIN WE THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Larson: FROM PAKISTAN
TONIGHT,
WORD THAT THE FATHER OF A YOUNG
WOMAN WHO WAS STONED TO DEATH
HAS NOW BEEN CHARGED
WITH HER KILLING.
TWO BROTHERS, A COUSIN AND
ANOTHER MAN WERE ALSO CHARGED.
THE 25-YEAR-OLD VICTIM
WAS KILLED
BEFORE A CROWD OF ONLOOKERS
SIX WEEKS AGO
IN A SO-CALLED HONOR KILLING.
FAMILY MEMBERS WERE ANGERED THAT
SHE HAD REFUSED TO MARRY
THE MAN THEY CHOSE FOR HER
AND INSTEAD HAD MARRIED
ANOTHER MAN SHE LOVED.
SHE WAS REPORTEDLY THREE MONTHS
PREGNANT AT THE TIME
OF HER DEATH.
TERRORISTS HAVE STRUCK AGAIN
IN EAST AFRICA.
AUTHORITIES IN KENYA SAY AT
LEAST 29 PEOPLE WERE KILLED
IN A SERIES OF ATTACKS THAT
ISLAMIC AL SHABAB EXTREMISTS
FROM NEIGHBORING SOMALIA CLAIMED
THAT THEY WERE BEHIND.
ONE KENYAN OFFICIAL SAID LATER,
"THEY WENT AROUND SHOOTING
AT PEOPLE AND VILLAGES
INDISCRIMINATELY."
FOR MORE, WE ARE JOINED NOW VIA
SKYPE FROM NAIROBI, KENYA,
BY HEIDI VOGT OF THE
"WALL STREET JOURNAL."
HEIDI, THANKS SO MUCH
FOR JOINING US,
WHAT MORE DO WE KNOW ABOUT THIS
PARTICULAR INCIDENT?
>> WELL, THIS WAS SORT OF TWIN
ATTACKS IN TWO AREAS,
ABOUT 90 KILOMETERS APART.
WE HAD GUNMEN GOING TO THESE
VILLAGES.
WE DO HAVE SOME WITNESSES SAYING
THAT THEY WERE TARGETING
CHRISTIAN MEN, WHICH IS
SOMETHING WE SAW IN ATTACKS
A FEW WEEKS AGO.
BUT WE ALSO HAVE REPORTS THAT
THEY MAY HAVE BEEN TRYING
TO FREE PRISONERS OR JUST GOING
IN, AS YOUR WERE SAYING,
SHOOTING.
>> Larson: NOW THIS IS THE
LATEST IN A SERIES OF ATTACKS,
CORRECT?
I MEAN, WE ARE FAMILIAR
WITH THE HORRIBLE ATTACKS
ON THE SHOPPING CENTER IN
NAIROBI
BUT THERE HAS BEEN A SERIES NOW.
>> YEAH.
THE MOST RECENT ATTACK LIKE THIS
THAT DREW A LOT OF ATTENTION
TO THIS EASTERN REGION OF KENYA
WAS JUST ABOUT THREE WEEKS AGO
AROUND MPEKETONI, WHERE WE HAD
SOME 60 PEOPLE KILLED,
SLAUGHTERED, REALLY, AT NIGHT AS
ATTACKERS WENT DOOR TO DOOR
ASKING IF PEOPLE WERE
MUSLIMS OR CHRISTIAN,
SO IT REALLY IS SHOWING THAT
THESE AREN'T ISOLATED INCIDENTS.
>> Larson: WE'VE ALWAYS HEARD
ABOUT KENYA BEING SORT OF
THIS SHINING HOPE FOR DEMOCRACY.
WE'VE SEEN WESTERN BUSINESSES,
LOTS OF TOURISM IN THE AREA.
WHAT EFFECTS HAVE THESE ATTACKS
HAD ON THOSE?
>> KENYA IS NOT JUST
THE SHINING HOPE,
IT'S REALLY BEEN THE STABILIZING
FACTOR FOR THIS WHOLE REGION.
I MEAN, WHEN YOU LOOK AT ITS
NEIGHBORS,
YOU'VE GOT SOMALIA, SOUTH SUDAN,
AND KENYA HAS BEEN A COUNTRY
THAT HAS GONE INTO NEGOTIATE,
THAT HAS SENT TROOPS IN
IN SOME CASES,
AND THAT WESTERN POWERS HAVE
USED AS A PARTNER
TO TRY TO COMBAT THE TERRORIST
THREAT ACROSS EAST AFRICA.
SO IF KENYA IS A PLACE THAT
SUDDENLY IS UNSAFE, UNCERTAIN,
IT RAISES A LOT MORE QUESTIONS
FOR WHAT THAT MEANS
FOR THE ENTIRE EAST AFRICAN
REGION.
>> Larson: NOW, HOW GREAT A
THREAT IS AL SHABAB
AND WHAT IS THEIR TIES TO OTHER
ISLAMIC EXTREMIST GROUPS
AROUND THE WORLD?
>> WELL, AL SHABAB IS AFFILIATED
WITH AL QAEDA
AND IT HAS BEEN IN A MAJOR
DESTABILIZING FORCE
IN THE REGION.
THEY HAVE BEEN WORKING AGAINST
THE SOMALI GOVERNMENT,
OBVIOUSLY, FOR YEARS.
NOW A LOT OF THESE ATTACKS IN
KENYA
THEY SAY ARE IN RETALIATION FOR
KENYAN FORCES
GOING IN AND TRYING TO HELP PUT
DOWN THAT INSURGENCY IN SOMALIA.
SO IT'S REALLY HAD AN EFFECT
THROUGHOUT A LOT OF KENYA
AS WELL.
>> Larson: HEIDI VOGT OF THE
"WALL STREET JOURNAL"
FROM KENYA, THANKS SO MUCH
FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Larson: NEW REVELATIONS ABOUT
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY DATA
LEAKED BY FORMER NSA ANALYST
EDWARD SNOWDEN.
IN AN ARTICLE PUBLISHED TODAY,
THE "WASHINGTON POST"
SAID IT REVIEWED
MORE THAN 160,000 EMAILS AND
INSTANT MESSAGE CONVERSATIONS,
AND ANOTHER 8,000 DOCUMENTS
THAT WERE COLLECTED
BETWEEN 2009 AND 2012.
THE PAPER SAYS "ORDINARY
INTERNET USERS,
"AMERICAN AND NON-AMERICAN
ALIKE,
"FAR OUTNUMBER LEGALLY TARGETED
FOREIGNERS
"IN THE COMMUNICATIONS
INTERCEPTED
BY THE NATIONAL SECURITY
AGENCY."
THE PAPER REPORTS THAT NEARLY
HALF OF THE FILES CONTAINED
DETAILS THAT THE NSA IDENTIFIED
AS BEING FROM U.S. CITIZENS
OR RESIDENTS.
THE REPORT ALSO FOUND THAT SOME
OF THE COMMUNICATIONS CAPTURED
BY THE NSA DID CONTAIN
SIGNIFICANT INTELLIGENCE VALUE,
INCLUDING "A SECRET OVERSEAS
NUCLEAR PROJECT,
"DOUBLE-DEALING BY
AN OSTENSIBLE ALLY,
"AND THE IDENTITIES OF
AGGRESSIVE INTRUDERS
"INTO U.S. COMPUTER NETWORKS."
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT TODAY
ANNOUNCED NEW RULES
THAT WILL REQUIRE PASSENGERS
FLYING TO THE UNITED STATES
FROM SOME OVERSEAS AIRPORTS TO
POWER UP THEIR PHONES
AND LAPTOPS BEFORE BOARDING.
THE MOVE COMES AMIDST GROWING
CONCERN THAT TERRORISTS
ARE TRYING TO FASHION
NEW KINDS OF BOMBS,
POSSIBLY DISGUISED
AS ELECTRONIC DEVICES.
THE NATION'S DIRECTOR OF
HOMELAND SECURITY TALKED ABOUT
THE DECISION TODAY ON
"MEET THE PRESS."
>> WE KNOW THAT THERE REMAINS
A TERRORIST THREAT
TO THE UNITED STATES AND
AVIATION SECURITY
IS A LARGE PART OF THAT.
>> Larson: IT CONTINUES TO BE AN
EXCEPTIONALLY VIOLENT WEEKEND
IN CHICAGO.
CITY OFFICIALS SAY FIVE PEOPLE
WERE KILLED, 11 WOUNDED,
IN A SERIES OF SHOOTINGS
OVERNIGHT.
AT LEAST 37 PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
SHOT THERE
SINCE THE START
OF THE HOLIDAY WEEKEND,
INCLUDING FIVE SHOT BY POLICE.
SCIENTISTS IN PENNSYLVANIA
BELIEVE CHEMICAL DISCHARGES
ARE BEHIND THE DISCOVERY OF
WHAT'S CALLED "INTERSEX FISH"--
MALE FISH CARRYING EGGS.
RESEARCHERS SAY THAT FISH IN
THREE MAJOR RIVERS--
THE OHIO, DELAWARE, AND
SUSQUEHANNA--
HAVE BEEN AFFECTED.
A RESEARCHER FOR THE U.S.
GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
SAYS THE CHEMICALS
APPARENTLY COME FROM
BOTH AGRICULTURAL PESTICIDES
AND SEWAGE DISCHARGES.
AND A SIGN OF THE TIMES--
THE LIBRARY AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF SOUTH FLORIDA
HAS ANNOUNCED THAT IT WILL SOON
START LENDING OUT DRONES
TO STUDENTS.
IT'S BELIEVED TO BE A FIRST
ON COLLEGE CAMPUSES.
A SCHOOL OFFICIAL SAID EACH OF
THE FIVE-POUND DRONES,
THAT COME WITH A VIDEO CAMERA,
WILL BE USED TO MAP THE CAMPUS
AS WELL AS FOR ENGINEERING
AND MARINE SCIENCE PROJECTS.
IN CASE YOU ARE WONDERING,
THE STUDENTS WILL BE WORKING
UNDER THE SUPERVISION
OF FACULTY.
AS WE MENTIONED EARLIER,
HARI SREENIVASAN WAS AT
THE ASPEN IDEAS FESTIVAL
IN COLORADO THIS WEEK.
WHILE THERE, HE HAD A
CONVERSATION ABOUT
A DIFFERENT ASPECT OF INTERNET
PRIVACY-- OR THE LACK OF IT--
ABOUT ALL THE INFORMATION
COMPANIES ARE GATHERING
ABOUT YOU AND HOW THEY USE IT.
HIS INTERVIEW WAS WITH JULIA
ANGWIN,
A SENIOR REPORTER AT PROPUBLICA
AND THE AUTHOR OF THE BOOK
"DRAGNET NATION."
>> POST EDWARD SNOWDEN, HAS THE
CONVERSATION CHANGED?
ARE MORE PEOPLE AWARE NOW
IN THE LAST YEAR
OF NOT JUST NSA AND THE DATA
THEY ARE GATHERING,
BUT ALL THE DATA ABOUT THEM
THAT EXISTS?
>> YEAH, I THINK PEOPLE
ARE MORE AWARE.
IT STILL SURPRISES ME, THOUGH,
HOW MUCH PEOPLE ARE NOT AWARE,
SO IT IS NOT JUST THE NSA,
ALL THESE COMPANIES
OR EVEN WHEN YOU GO TO A
SHOPPING MALL
THEY MAY BE SETTING UP THE WIFI
SNIFFERS
THAT SORT OF PING YOUR PHONE TO
SEE WHO IS WALKING BY.
THE UBIQUITY OF SURVEILLANCE IS
REALLY HARD FOR PEOPLE TO GRASP.
>> IN THE INVESTIGATIONS YOU
HAVE DONE,
THERE'S TONS OF RESEARCH BEING
DONE ABOUT US
AND DATA BEING GENERATED.
WHAT ARE THE WAYS THAT OUR DATA
IS BEING USED BY COMPANIES
IN WAYS THAT WE DON'T KNOW
ABOUT?
>> I MEAN, IT RANGES ALL THE WAY
FROM TOTALLY INNOCUOUS
TO REALLY CREEPY.
ONE THING THAT I LIKE TO POINT
OUT IS THAT, YOU KNOW,
SOMETHING THAT SEEMS REALLY
INNOCUOUS,
LIKE ONLINE AD TRACKING-- YOU
KNOW, THE ADS FOLLOW YOU AROUND
FROM SITE TO SITE.
THEY'RE TAILORED TO YOUR
INTERESTS.
EVEN THAT CAN BE DISTURBING IN
THE WRONG CONTEXT,
ONE STORY I TELL IN MY BOOK
IS ABOUT A WOMAN WHO WAS NOT OUT
TO HER COLLEAGUES
ABOUT HER SEXUAL ORIENTATION,
BUT WHEN THEY SAW HER LOOKING AT
HER COMPUTER SCREEN
AND EVERY SINGLE AD WAS FOR GAY
AND LESBIAN CRUISES,
YOU KNOW,
SUDDENLY SHE WAS OUTED.
SO EVEN THE MOST INNOCUOUS OF
DATA GATHERING
CAN HAVE STRANGE IMPACTS
THAT ARE HARD TO PREDICT.
>> DO WE AS CONSUMERS HAVE
RIGHTS TO LOOK AT THE DATA
THAT A COMMERCIAL COMPANY MIGHT
HAVE ON US
AND THEN DISPUTE THAT IF
THAT'S WRONG?
>> NO, WE DON'T HAVE THAT RIGHT.
SO WE ARE ONE OF THE ONLY
WESTERN NATIONS
THAT DOESN'T HAVE A LAW THAT
ALLOWS US TO SEE THE DATA
THAT COMMERCIAL DATA
GATHERERS HAVE.
SO MOST COUNTRIES DON'T LET YOU
SEE THE INFORMATION
THAT INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES HAVE,
OBVIOUSLY,
BUT COMMERCIAL DATA GATHERERS
IN MOST COUNTRIES--
CANADA, EUROPE, THE UK--
YOU CAN GO TO THEM AND SAY,
"SHOW ME THE INFORMATION."
AND IF IT IS WRONG YOU CAN
CORRECT IT
OR ASK FOR CORRECTION.
AND THERE'S SORT OF
A DISPUTE PROCESS.
BUT WE DON'T HAVE THAT HERE,
SO I TRIED TO FIND
WHERE MY DATA WAS, IDENTIFIED
200 DATA BROKERS,
AND I WAS ONLY ABLE TO SEE MY
FILES AT 13 OF THEM.
>> OF THOSE 13,
WERE THEY ALL ACCURATE?
>> NO, SO THAT'S THE OTHER
THING, IS THE 13,
THERE WERE PROBABLY ABOUT FIVE
OR SIX THAT WERE VERY ACCURATE.
THEY WERE ADDRESSES OF
EVERYWHERE I EVER LIVED.
THEY HAD EVEN... EVEN ONE OF
THEM HAD THE NUMBER
ON MY DORM ROOM IN COLLEGE,
WHICH I HAD FORGOTTEN,
AND EVERY PHONE NUMBER,
AND MY RELATIVES,
AND ALL SORT OF THINGS.
THEY WERE VERY ACCURATE.
THEN THERE WAS ANOTHER CATEGORY,
THOUGH,
OF PEOPLE WHO BASICALLY
PEGGED ME
BECAUSE I LIVE IN HARLEM,
IN MANHATTAN,
AS A LOW-INCOME SINGLE MOTHER
WITH VERY LOW EDUCATION LEVELS,
AND THAT'S NOT TRUE.
>> AND IS THIS DATA BEING
PROTECTED
OR IS PRIVATE INFORMATION ABOUT
US BEING TRADED ALL AROUND US?
>> OUR PRIVATE INFORMATION IS
BEING TRADED ALL AROUND US.
SADLY IT HAS BECOME A COMMODITY
SO THE DATA BROKERS,
FOR INSTANCE, BUY AND SELL FROM
EACH OTHER ALL THE TIME,
AND TRADE INFORMATION,
SO IF ONE OF THEM HAS MAYBE YOUR
VOTING FILES,
BUT THE OTHER ONE HAS MAYBE
YOUR HUNTING LICENSE,
THEY MAY BUY AND TRADE THAT
INFORMATION.
AND SIMILARLY THE PEOPLE WHO
TRACK YOU ONLINE ON ADS
THAT FOLLOW YOU AROUND
FROM SITE TO SITE,
THEY ALSO TRADE INFORMATION
ABOUT YOU
ON ACTUAL MARKETS LIKE THE NEW
YORK STOCK EXCHANGE.
THERE ARE ACTUALLY INSTANT...
MILLISECOND LEVEL TRANSACTIONS.
SO WHEN YOU ARRIVE AT A WEBSITE,
A LITTLE SIGNAL GOES OUT
TO THE AUCTION, OH, THIS PERSON
HAS ARRIVED,
WHO WANTS TO BID ON HIM?
THERE IS LIKE A BIDDING IN
MILLISECONDS
AND THEN YOU GET THE AD FOR
THE PERSON WHO BID THE MOST.
>> SO WHAT'S OUR RECOURSE?
WITH CREDIT REPORTS,
IF WE GET A BAD ONE,
TECHNICALLY THERE IS A WAY FOR
US TO CHALLENGE IT
OR FIND THE INFORMATION.
BUT THAT IS A VERY
SPECIFIC SILO.
>> RIGHT.
>> YOU ARE TALKING ABOUT
INFORMATION,
ANYTHING FROM OUR HEALTHCARE
DATA TO OUR SHOPPING HISTORY.
>> RIGHT.
I MEAN, I DON'T KNOW THAT I HAVE
A PERFECT SOLUTION
BUT I WOULD SAY
THAT CREDIT REPORTS
ARE A GOOD STARTING PLACE.
BECAUSE THE TWO THINGS THAT WE
ARE GIVEN RIGHTS OVER
WITH OUR CREDIT REPORT
IS WE GET TO SEE THEM
AND WE GET TO DISPUTE THEM.
AND THAT HAS BEEN THE BASELINE
FOR THE PRIVACY LAWS
IN OTHER COUNTRIES
THAT I WAS MENTIONING
THAT GIVE PEOPLE THE RIGHT TO
SEE THE DATA ABOUT THEM
AND DISPUTE IT.
AND IF THAT DATA IS BEING
USED TO MAKE A DECISION
OF ANY SIGNIFICANCE,
I FEEL LIKE THE VERY MINIMUM
THAT I WANT TO SEE IT
AND DISPUTE IT.
SO THAT IS WHAT THE FTC AND THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION
HAVE BOTH CALLED FOR LEGISLATION
WHICH WOULD ALLOW THAT,
WHICH IS BASICALLY THEY CALL IT
THE PRIVACY BILL OF RIGHTS.
BUT THERE'S BEEN NO ACTION
IN CONGRESS ON THAT.
>> JULIE ANGWIN,
THANKS SO MUCH FOR YOUR TIME.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Larson: OUR COLLEAGUES AT
PUBLIC TELEVISION STATION KVIE
IN SACRAMENTO, CALIFORNIA,
RECENTLY PRODUCED A DOCUMENTARY
ABOUT A DISEASE
FOUND IN SEVEN SOUTHWESTERN AND
WESTERN STATES--
A DISEASE THAT SCIENTISTS
AREN'T EVEN SURE HOW TO TREAT.
IT'S CALLED VALLEY FEVER, AND
THE NUMBER OF DIAGNOSED CASES
HAS RISEN DRAMATICALLY
IN THE PAST 15 YEARS.
THIS EXCERPT IS FROM
THE DOCUMENTARY
"DEADLY DUST--
VALLEY FEVER IN THE WEST."
JASON SHOULTZ REPORTS.
>> IT WAS THE VERY FIRST WEEKEND
OF MAY,
AND SHE WOKE UP FROM HER SLEEP
JUST NOT FEELING GOOD.
AND THEN SHE WAS
JUST REALLY TIRED
AND SHE HAD A COUGH THAT
WOULDN'T GO AWAY.
FINALLY, THERE WAS A DOCTOR
THAT SAID THIS ISN'T PNEUMONIA.
BUT HE KNEW JUST BY LOOKING AT
THE SPOT ON THE X-RAY
HE RECOGNIZED IT RIGHT AWAY
THAT IT WAS VALLEY FEVER.
>> 40 PERCENT OF PEOPLE WHO COME
DOWN WITH SYMPTOMS
ARE ABLE TO KEEP THE FUNGUS
IN CHECK IN THEIR LUNGS.
BUT FOR OTHERS, THE COCCI FUNGUS
DOES NOT STAY PUT.
IT CAN SPREAD TO OTHER PARTS
OF THE BODY,
CAUSING ANYTHING
FROM SKIN LESIONS
TO SERIOUS JOINT PAIN OR WORSE.
>> AND IF IT SPREADS,
PARTICULARLY IF IT SPREADS TO
THE BRAINS OR THE MENINGES,
THE COVER AROUND THE BRAIN,
THEN THAT IS A DISEASE
THAT IS GOING TO HAVE HUGE
CONSEQUENCES
FOR THAT PERSON
FOR THEIR ENTIRE LIFE.
>> BUT VALLEY FEVER
IN ITS EARLY STAGES
ISN'T ALWAYS TAKEN SERIOUSLY.
EVEN IN COMMUNITIES IN ARIZONA
OR CALIFORNIA SAN JOAQUIN VALLEY
WHERE THE FUNGUS IS FOUND
THROUGHOUT THE SOIL.
>> WHAT THEY'VE HEARD IS JUST,
"OH, IT IS JUST LIKE THE FLU
"AND YOUR IMMUNE SYSTEM CAN
FIGHT IT
UNLESS YOUR IMMUNE SYSTEM
IS LOW."
THAT'S NOT ALWAYS THE CASE.
THERE ARE VERY HEALTHY PEOPLE
WHO GET IT
AND CAN'T FIGHT IT OFF.
>> KATHY TERRELL'S BROTHER MAX
WAS A HEALTHY,
ACTIVE 56-YEAR-OLD WHO
CONTRACTED VALLEY FEVER.
IT WAS MISDIAGNOSED AS
TUBERCULOSIS
AND SPREAD THROUGHOUT HIS BODY.
HE DIED FIVE MONTHS LATER.
>> I WOULD NOT WISH THIS DISEASE
ON ANYONE.
>> FOR THOSE FEW PEOPLE THAT ARE
GOING TO GET SEVERE ILLNESS,
THE FASTER THEY GET THE CORRECT
DIAGNOSIS,
THEY HAVE THE BETTER CHANCE OF
HAVING A BETTER RECOVERY
RATHER THAN A PROLONGED RECOVERY
IF IT TAKES TWO OR THREE MONTHS
TO GET THE DIAGNOSIS.
>> MISDIAGNOSIS IS JUST ONE OF
THE CHALLENGES OF VALLEY FEVER
BECAUSE PEOPLE RESPOND SO
DIFFERENTLY TO THE DISEASE
AND ANTI-FUNGAL DRUGS CAN HAVE
NEGATIVE SIDE EFFECTS,
THERE IS ACTUALLY DISAGREEMENT
ON TREATMENT.
>> WE TREAT BASICALLY ALMOST
EVERYONE,
WHEREAS IN ARIZONA
THEY ARE MORE SELECTIVE.
THEY TRY AND LOOK FOR PEOPLE
THAT SEEM TO HAVE RISK FACTORS
FOR DOING POORLY BEFORE THEY
INITIATE THERAPY.
WE DON'T HAVE DATA THAT PROVES
WHOSE APPROACH IS ACTUALLY BEST.
>> WE DON'T EVEN KNOW IF EARLY
TREATMENT ALTERS THE COURSE.
WE HAVE LONG SPECULATED THAT,
BUT IT'S NEVER BEEN PROVEN
IN A RANDOMIZED TRIAL
THE WAY WE KNOW
THAT BACTERIAL PNEUMONIA
RESPONDS TO ANTIBIOTICS.
PATIENTS GET BETTER FASTER.
FOR COCCI, SOME PEOPLE THINK
THAT EARLY TREATMENT
ACTUALLY MAY ALTER THE IMMUNE
RESPONSE ENOUGH
THAT SYMPTOMS ARE PROLONGED.
>> ATTENTION IN RESEARCH FUNDING
GIVEN TO VALLEY FEVER
PALES IN COMPARISON TO OTHER
HIGH PROFILE DISEASES.
FROM 1999 TO 2012,
THERE WERE ABOUT 37,000 WEST
NILE VIRUS CASES,
BUT IN ONE YEAR ALONE-- 2011--
THERE WERE 22,000 REPORTED CASES
OF VALLEY FEVER, ALMOST
TWO-THIRDS AS MANY.
DESPITE THAT, THE NATIONAL
INSTITUTES OF HEALTH FUNDING
FOR VALLEY FEVER RESEARCH IS
JUST FOUR PERCENT OF WEST NILE.
BECAUSE THERE IS NO CURE,
PATIENTS WHO HAVE SURVIVED
VALLEY FEVER END UP
REGULARLY TAKING ANTI-FUNGAL
MEDICATIONS
TO PREVENT IT FROM SPREADING
AGAIN.
>> I SAY IT SWELLED
LIKE A WATERMELON.
>> THE COCCI FUNGUS ATTACKED
JACK MILLER'S ANKLE IN 2004.
JACK DIDN'T EVEN LIVE IN THE
ENDEMIC VALLEY FEVER AREA
WHEN HE CAUGHT THE DISEASE.
IT TURNS OUT HE BREATHED IN THE
SPORES
WHILE SIMPLY DRIVING THROUGH
THE SAN JOAQUIN VALLEY.
>> WINDOW HALFWAY CRACKED
OR WHATEVER,
YOU CAN'T FILTER OUT A SPORE.
IT'S GOING TO GO AHEAD AND GET
UP IN THE AIR
AND FIND ITS WAY TO MY NOSE
OR NOSTRILS, YOU KNOW.
>> A DECADE AFTER THAT FATEFUL
BREATH IN THE CAB OF HIS TRUCK,
JACK NOW DRIVES 1,700 MILES
ROUND-TRIP FROM IDAHO
TO UC DAVIS MEDICAL CENTER
SEVERAL TIMES EACH YEAR
FOR TREATMENT.
HE WILL TAKE ANTI-FUNGAL
MEDICATION
FOR THE REST OF HIS LIFE.
>> I AM FORTUNATE THAT MY
EMPLOYER COVERS THE COST
OF MY MEDICINE,
BECAUSE RIGHT NOW,
I THINK IT'S ABOUT $3,500,
$4,000 A MONTH.
THE MEDICINE I'M ON, THEY JUST
GO AHEAD AND KEEP IT SQUASHED.
>> MY DREAM WOULD BE IF YOU WALK
IN THE DOOR WITH PNEUMONIA
OR EVEN JUST WITH FEVER
FOR A COUPLE OF DAYS,
YOU ARE NOT QUITE SURE
WHAT IT IS,
THAT THERE IS A SIMPLE,
INEXPENSIVE TEST
THAT WILL SAY, OKAY, YOU HAVE
GOT VALLEY FEVER, YOU DON'T.
WE DON'T HAVE THAT RIGHT NOW.
>> Larson: VALLEY FEVER ALSO
RUNS RAMPANT
INSIDE SOME OF CALIFORNIA'S SAN
JOAQUIN VALLEY PRISONS.
THE DISEASE HAS BEEN BLAMED FOR
THE DEATHS OF DOZENS
OF PRISONERS
AND SOME PRISON STAFF.
CALIFORNIA SPENDS ABOUT $23
MILLION DOLLARS A YEAR
CARING FOR PRISONERS
WITH VALLEY FEVER.
TO SEE MORE FROM THE KVIE
DOCUMENTARY
"DEADLY DUST-- VALLEY FEVER
IN THE WEST"
VISIT NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG.
>> THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SUNDAY.
>> Larson:
AN OPERA THAT IS OPENING
AT THE LINCOLN CENTER FESTIVAL
IN NEW YORK ON THURSDAY
HAD ITS U.S. PREMIERE AT THE
HOUSTON GRAND OPERA
THIS PAST JANUARY, WHERE OUR
SISTER STATION,
HOUSTON PUBLIC MEDIA,
SPOKE WITH SOME OF THE PEOPLE
INVOLVED IN THE PRODUCTION.
IT'S CALLED "THE PASSENGER"
AND IT'S BASED ON A RADIO PLAY
AND NOVEL OF THE SAME NAME
BY A CONCENTRATION CAMP
SURVIVOR, ZOFIA POSMYSZ.
THE OPERA TELLS THE STORY OF TWO
WOMEN DURING THE HOLOCAUST...
ONE, A PRISONER AT AUSCHWITZ;
THE OTHER, HER SS OVERSEER.
>> IT'S INTERESTING THAT ZOFIA
POSMYSZ HERSELF SAID
WHEN SHE FIRST HEARD THE OPERA
THAT SHE DIDN'T THINK
ANYONE COULD EVER CAPTURE
THE EXPERIENCE OF WHAT,
NOT A DAY IN AUSCHWITZ WAS LIKE,
BUT WHAT 15 MINUTES IN AUSCHWITZ
WAS LIKE.
SHE SAID YOU DIDN'T TRY TO THINK
ABOUT SURVIVING FOR A DAY.
YOU TRIED TO THINK ABOUT HOW TO
GET THROUGH THE NEXT 15 MINUTES.
>> THE FACT THAT WHAT YOU'RE
WITNESSING IS A HUMAN STORY
ABOUT TWO YOUNG GIRLS,
AND THESE GIRLS SHOULD HAVE MET
IN A UNIVERSITY CANTEEN AND
SQUABBLED ABOUT A BOYFRIEND
AND HELPED ONE ANOTHER WITH
THEIR ESSAY,
BUT THIS UNIVERSITY IS CALLED
AUSCHWITZ
AND ONE IS ON ONE SIDE
OF THE LINE
AND THE OTHER'S ON THE OTHER,
EVEN THIS HELL IS A HUMAN STORY.
IT'S A STORY ABOUT HUMAN BEINGS.
>> I CANNOT BEAR THIS
SEPARATION.
I DREAM CONSTANTLY OF YOU.
>> IT DOESN'T ASK US TO TELL
EACH OTHER WHY
OR HOW COULD THIS HAPPEN?
ALL IT ASKS OF US IS THAT WE
REMEMBER THAT THIS HAPPENED.
ONE QUESTION.
ONE-ONE THING.
ONE DEMAND.
REMEMBER.
>> Larson: SOME LATE NEWS BEFORE
WE LEAVE YOU TONIGHT.
A PROMINENT HUMAN RIGHTS LAWYER
IN SAUDI ARABIA
WAS SENTENCED TODAY TO 15 YEARS
IN PRISON.
HE WAS TRIED FOR SEDITION
FOR, AMONG OTHER THINGS,
SHOWING DISRESPECT TOWARD
AUTHORITIES.
AUTHORITIES IN CALIFORNIA SAY
A WILDFIRE THAT BURNED
MORE THAN 4,000 ACRES
IN NAPA COUNTY
IS NOW 80 PERCENT CONTAINED.
AND FORMER U.S. SENATOR ALAN
DIXON HAS DIED.
THE ILLINOIS DEMOCRAT WAS 86.
JOIN US ON AIR AND ONLINE
TOMORROW.
I AM JOHN LARSON.
GOOD NIGHT.